# tests

Helper utilities for ensuring that musli is safe to use and behaves as expected.

This does include a fairly sophisticated benchmarking suite.

<br>

## Benchmarking

To run the benchmarks included in this crate, use the separate [`tools`
crate](../tools).

```rust
cargo run -p tools -- --bench --force
```

> **Note:** `--force` will overwriting existing violing plots.

This will ensure that only crates with comparable feature sets are grouped
together, and at the end generate a `benchmarks.md` report.

<br>

## The `fuzz` tool

This comes with the `fuzz` binary which can do the following things:

Run serialization for a long time against a lot of random data. Both with
and without miri. When run with miri, the size of the datasets is
drastically reduced.

```sh
cargo run --bin fuzz --features musli-wire
cargo +nightly miri run --bin fuzz --features musli-wire
```

Run deserialization against randomly generated bytes. Both with and without
miri. When run with miri, the --features musli-wire size of the datasets is drastically reduced.

```sh
cargo run --bin fuzz --features musli-wire -- --random
cargo +nightly miri run --bin fuzz --features musli-wire -- --random
```

> **Note** you can add the running of optional crates by enabling its
> corresponding feature, such as `--features bincode`.

To select which framework(s) to fuzz, enabled their corresponding features. If
you just want to fuzz `serde_json`, you'd run:

```sh
cargo run --bin fuzz --features serde_json
```

Just beware that enabling certain dependencies limits the models being used.

<br>

## Potential security issues discovered by this crate

* `dlhn`: Allocating and initializing large arrays based on untrusted input
  (DoS): [dlhn#11](https://github.com/otake84/dlhn/issues/11).

<br>

## Size comparison

To perform a one-off size comparison:

```sh
cargo run --bin fuzz -- --size
```

This will *for now* just take the first generated field of a given type,
serialize it, and print out its size. In the future it will perform an
average over the entire set with more statistics.
